An impact evaluation is a
specific type of evaluation that
measures the causal effect of an
intervention on an outcome or
outcomes.
Impact evaluations answer
cause-and-effect questions about
interventions, also known as
questions of attribution.
They show us which outcomes,
whether positive or negative,
were caused by the program.
In the field of impact
evaluation, we have a specific
technical definition of impact.
Impact is the causal effect of
an intervention on an outcome or
alternatively, the amount of an
outcome or change in an outcome
attributable to an intervention.
Cause and effect are our
keywords.
Answering cause and effect
questions is what makes an
evaluation an impact evaluation.
A related term is attribution.
Can we say that the change in
our results that we observe is a
result of our program?
We are careful not to use terms
such as impact, effect, or other
causal terms unless we have
arrived at our evaluation
results through specific methods
of causal analysis.
We will introduce you to some of
these methods later in this
course.